---
layout: page
title: About Me
---

Hi! I'm Cole Cecil. I work as a software developer, specifically in web development. I live in Iowa with my awesome wife Kezia (she's a linguist, and she does really interesting stuff involving languages and brains) and our two cats. I have a bachelor's degree in computer science from the University of Iowa and a master's degree in computer science from the University of Southern California. I'm a quiet introvert and dislike being at the center of attention, but I really enjoy spending time with friends (as long as it's not too many at once!). I like learning new things and exploring the world around me (though I'm sure to bring plenty of hand sanitizer along if I venture too far off the beaten path). I try not to take myself too seriously, because that's too stressful.

I'm fortunate to have a career that I really, truly enjoy. Working in software is amazing because, just using your fingertips, you can create anything you can imagine. It's amazing to watch your creations slowly evolve from nothing to something fantastic right in front of your eyes. I love the challenge of solving logical problems, and I get to solve different problems every day. Plus, technology is constantly changing -- I get to learn new stuff all the time, so it stays exciting. It's also great to be able to work with and learn from smart, amazing people.

When I do my work, I hold myself to a high standard and value quality. I believe that if something is worth doing, it's worth doing well. Having said that, it's in my nature to be a perfectionist, and I've learned that I need to be careful not to go overboard. At the end of the day, it's much more useful to have a finished but imperfect piece of software than to have a perfect but unfinished piece of software. I believe in taking a practical approach to doing work and carefully thinking about what will work best, rather than blindly following guidelines. Apart from working on software from the technical perspective, I also enjoy working on the human aspects of software. I try to design with the end user in mind, attempting to make things simple, organized, and easy to use. I also do my best to make things look nice. I believe it's important to have compassion toward the end user of your software -- that using your software should be something that causes joy and happiness, rather than frustration and pain. Of course, these are not easy goals to achieve, and I don't always achieve them. But I keep learning and keep trying, and I think I get better at it bit by bit.

Aside from developing software, I have a few other things I like to do as well. One of my favorite things to do is play video games. Some of the types of games I like are 2D platformers, local multiplayer games, RPGs, and adventure games. I also enjoy particularly artistic and story-rich games. Some of my favorite games are Super Mario World, the Zelda series, the Metroid series, Donkey Kong Country 2, Shovel Knight, Brothers - A Tale of Two Sons, Cave Story, the Super Smash Brothers series, TowerFall, Earthbound, Undertale, VVVVVV, The Neverhood, and the Myst series. I also do some game development in my spare time (which you're probably aware of if you've read some of my blog posts). As far as getting exercise, I enjoy doing martial arts (of the kickboxing variety -- I've practiced taekwondo and Muay Thai) and playing disc golf. Of course, I also enjoy spending time with my wife, family, and friends. I've also been trying to get more involved in helping make my community a better place. Right now, I'm in a local group that aims to fight against racism and improve racial justice.
