---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts on Function and Beauty in Design"
date: 2019-05-20 22:00:00 -0500
---

I was recently reflecting on how I enjoy creating things things that are both functional and beautiful. Being a software developer, I usually start the design process thinking more about the functional side of things (after all, software exists primarily to serve a useful purpose). However, because I've also been doing video game development, I've often been finding myself starting the design process from an aesthetic point of view. In both situations, I've found the relationship between these two aspects of design to be complex and interesting.

<!--more-->

One recent example of starting from an aesthetic viewpoint is in creating cover art for [my game](https://meticulousmonster.com/bludgeon/), to be displayed in online stores like Steam. Naturally, my first thought was that it should look nice and fit the style of the game. However, upon further reflection, I realized that this piece of artwork also needs to perform the function of conveying what the game is like. This piece of artwork might be the only thing people see about my game before deciding whether to investigate further or just keep scrolling, so it needs to convey enough information about the game to tell them whether they might be interested in playing it. (For more detailed thoughts on creating good video game cover art, [I found this to be a good article](https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/JamesCavin/20180214/314636/Making_a_videogame_cover_that_doesnt_suck.php).)

An example of the opposite side, where I'm starting from the functional viewpoint, would be a report I'm creating in a web application for my job. The purpose of the report is for a user to be able to gather and interpret specific data. However, in my opinion, the report will be more effective if it's presented in a way that's beautiful. If this is the case, then it will become even better at fulfilling its purpose, as it will be easier to read and understand. There is also the added benefit of making the user's life better (even if only by a small amount) by having a more pleasant experience. If I have compassion and empathy for the people who use the products I create, then I will put forth effort to create things that are a joy for them to use, rather than a pain. This also creates more meaning for me, since I will have more interesting problems to solve and I will be able to take more pride in my work, knowing I created the best version of the the thing that I could.

In my opinion, people who create things should, whenever possible, strive to make them both functional and beautiful. I think this will help create a better world for us all to live in. Take, for example, the design of cities and buildings. These can be (and often are) designed primarily on function, without regard to how they look. This allows people to live there, but they will not live there as happily as they would if it was also beautiful. One other thing to mention is that the defined function ("people can live there") can often leave out other potentially coexisting functions that would also be useful ("wildlife can coexist there", "it's energy efficient", etc.). Another example is packaging for products that are sold. These generally are designed primarily to catch people's attention and look nice (in order to increase the likelihood of the product being purchased). However, more often than not, it seems that very little thought is put into the function of being able to open the packaging. I so often come across packaging that basically encases the product in solid plastic, which is almost impossible to open without scissors. And then when I do manage to open it, it results in frustration and sharp edges. If more thought was put into the function of being able to open the packaging, it would result in less frustration, more safety, and greater accessibility.

- Challenges involved in creating these things.
- How this process can help create meaningful relationships/connections.
- Consequences/outcomes of things we create. Questions to ask ourselves.